

I assume that the information below will allow you to run EW 1.1 from hard
disk--not having one, and being a little unsophisticated, I am unsure.
If your hard disk is drive C, then the command ASSIGN A=C B=C will have to
be used.  In any event, I can run it from electronic disk, so I don't
think you'll have any problems--but please let me know if you do.


    UNPROTECTING EASYWRITER 1.1 - A PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT BY:
    CHARLES S. HERTZ, JR., M.D., 534 ROLAND AVE., JACKSON, TN 38301
    SOURCE ID TCZ599

EasyWriter 1.1's copy-protection scheme seems to depend on the existence of
a bizarrely formatted track 39, and a single subroutine that verifies the
existence of this track.  This subroutine is located in the file
IBM88VMI.COM at offset hex 196, and is invoked by a CALL instruction
located at offset hex 180 in the same file.  The subroutine checks to see
if a sector number 80 exists on track 39--it does on the original
EasyWriter diskette, but of course does not on a normally formatted
diskette.  If the subroutine cannot verify the existence of the sector,
then it returns values such that the calling program immediately executes
an interrupt 20H, i.e. terminates and returns to DOS.  Examination of the
code shows that it is necessary only to substitute three 1-byte NOP's (null
operations) for the 3-byte CALL statement--thus, the subroutine is never
executed, and track 39 is never checked.  The substitution can be made
easily with the Norton Utility SECMOD, or, of course, with the DOS utility
DEBUG.	The substitution can be made directly on the original EasyWriter
diskette (or the single "authorized" copy); or, for the squeamish, on a
diskette to which the EasyWriter files have been copied with a "copy *.*"
command.  After the patch, the files can be copied (but only with copy *.*
if using the original diskette as the source) as often as desired to any
type DOS formatted diskette, and the program will run without a hitch.
Note that if you copy to a DOS 2 diskette, but originally installed DOS
1.1, you should replace the DOS 1.1 COMMAND.COM, and the utilities FORMAT,
DISKCOPY, etc., with their DOS 2 versions.  The files can also be copied to
simulated disk, or hard disk; since EasyWriter expects to find programs on
Drive A, and data on Drive B, appropriate use of the DOS 2 ASSIGN command
will be necessary in the latter instances (typically ASSIGN A=C B=C).

WARNING:  The instructions below are based on the first release of EW 1.1;
files on this version are stamped 06-08-82.  It is possible that there are
more recent versions; and while it is unlikely that the basic protection
scheme has been changed, it may be that changes have been made that have by
chance altered the location of the CALL to the protection subroutine.  If
in trying to follow the instructions you receive unexpected results, STOP
before writing any changes; please contact me for further advice.  Even if
my method works on a newer version, I would GREATLY appreciate hearing from
you about its existence, as my version has a very annoying bug.

For those with the Norton Utilities, place the diskette containing SECMOD
in Drive A, and the EasyWriter diskette in Drive B.  Be sure it is not
write protected.  Invoke SECMOD, select the file IBM88VMI.COM, and move the
cursor to offset hex 180.  Change the bytes E8 13 00 to 90 90 90.  Remember
to hit the F9 key to write the changes.  That's it.

For DEBUG:  First, invoke DEBUG from the DOS diskette.	Place the
EasyWriter diskette (again, be sure it is not write protected) in Drive A.
At the DEBUG prompt, type n ibm88vmi.com, then hit [Enter].  At the next
prompt, type l (that's the letter, not the number), and [Enter].  At the
next prompt, type e cs:0280, and [Enter].  Debug responds with xxxx:0280
E3.  WITHOUT hitting [Enter], type 90.	Then hit the space bar; DEBUG
responds with 13.  Type 90, and hit the space bar again.  DEBUG responds
with 00.  Type 90, and now hit [Enter].  At the next DEBUG prompt, type w
(to write the changes) and [Enter]; then, at the next prompt, type q (to
quit) and [Enter].  That's all.

Addendum:  The EasyWriter utility TRANSFER, written in BASIC, has a
trivial, independent protection scheme.  From the BASIC interpreter command
prompt (Ok), type LOAD"TRANSFER [Enter].  Delete line 80 by simply typing
80 [Enter].  Then type SAVE"TRANSFER [Enter].

Regards,
Charles...TCZ599


**************************************************

Also see program EZWRITER.BAS
